The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian, Sherman Alexie

Hesse, Mechthild, and Dorothea Ernst. Sherman Alexie, The absolutely true diary of a part-Time Indian. Klett Sprachen, 2010.

	An young Native American child leaves their life on the reservation for a new school. There, they make new friends and become a popular, respected, member of the community.
	Through reading this story, I learned about the importance of getting a good education. This story told about the struggles of reservation life in a way no other book has done for me. Diary shows that storytelling is important by providing a unique insight into the life of a Native American child, and tells their story in a straight-forward, no-nonsense, manner.

Acquainted With The Night, Robert Frost

Frost, Robert. Selected poems. Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1963.

	Robert Frost writes a short poem about living in an oppressive society. It describes a person walking through city streets and avoiding all contact with authority.
	Through reading Acquainted, I got a glimpse into Robert Frost's perception of oppression. Acquainted offered a unique view I have not experienced in any other medium, which shows that storytelling is important. The poem presents itself in a longing manner.

'Sherman Alexie Says He's Been \'Indian Du Jour\' for a very long time.', Terry Gross/NPR

Gross, Terry. “Sherman Alexie Says He's Been 'Indian Du Jour' For A 'Very Long Day'.” NPR, NPR, 20 June 2017, www.npr.org/2017/06/20/533653471/sherman-alexie-says-hes-been-indian-du-jour-for-a-very-long-day.

	Sherman Alexie, author of 'The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian', talks about his life. The interview has a focus on Alexie's early life, especially events parralled between real life and Diary.
	This interview gave me deeper insights into Alexie's life, and what events inspired Diary. In giving me these insights, the interview showed a side of Alexie I wouldn't have seen in any other medium. The interview shows that storytelling is important by highlighting what makes Diary such a powerful piece of writing.

Reading Lolita in Tehran, Azar Nafisi

Nafisi, Azar. Reading Lolita in Tehran: a Memoir in Books. Penguin Books, 2015.

	Azar Nafisi writes about her time spent running a book club in an oppressive society. The club focuses on reading Lolita, by Vladimir Nabokov, and the effects of society upon the club members.
	Through reading this book, I gained knowledge of life in Iran. This book gave me unique knowledge of how oppressive Iranian life is, something no other book has done for me. In giving me such interesting and singular insights, Reading Lolita showed the importance of storytelliing; it truly captured the essence of Nafisi's life in a way nothing else can.

'Reading Lolita in Tehran, Azar Nafisi', Reader's Circle

“Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books by Azar Nafisi.” Random House Readers Circle, www.randomhouse.com/rhpg/rc//2010/01/30/reading-lolita-in-tehran.

	Random House's review and guiding questions over Reading Lolita. The review includes several guiding questions to assist teachers with lesson planning and further reader's understanding of Reading Lolita.
	Through reading the review, I learned more about the plot of Reading Lolita, catching details I would have otherwise missed. This source acted as a handy guide to Reading Lolita. The review's supplementary questions show the importance of storytelling by providing extensive queries about Reading Lolita.

Reading Mom and Dad in Tehran, Elaine Sciolino

Sciolino, Elaine. “Reading Mom and Dad in Tehran.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 3 Jan. 2009, www.nytimes.com/2009/01/04/books/review/Sciolino-t.html.

	In Reading Mom and Dad, Elaine Sciolino digs into the woman behind Reading Lolita, taking an extensive look at Azar Nafisi. The article has a focus on Nafisi's early life and upbringing.
	Through reading this article, I learned more about Azar Nafisi's early life. The article gave me information which I would not have found otherwise. The article shows the importance of storytelling by connecting the world of Reading Lolita to Nafisi's early life.
