In the introduction, Moore (the author) explains that the book tells the story of himself and another man named Wes Moore, both of whom were born in Baltimore in somewhat similar circumstances. However, where Moore himself grew up to achieve great things, “the other” Wes will spend every day of the rest of his life in prison for his part in the murder of Sergeant Bruce Prothero. After learning about Wes, Moore begins a correspondence with him that eventually turns into in-person visits in prison. The two men agree to work collaboratively in order to produce a book about their lives that will hopefully give an insight into the nature of destiny and inspire young people to make positive choices.

Moore introduces the book, explaining that it is the story of two men born in Baltimore with the same name: Wes Moore. While one of them grows up to achieve great success, the other will spend the rest of his life in prison. The book will examine the decisions that shape our destiny and highlight how easy it is for our lives to take an entirely different direction. While Moore himself won a Rhodes Scholarship while studying at Johns Hopkins University, the other Wes was imprisoned along with his older brother, Tony, for his involvement in a robbery that led to the murder of an off-duty police officer named Sergeant Bruce Prothero.

Moore has asked Wes about how his father’s absence affected him, but Wes denies that it had much impact. Wes contrasts his experience with that of Moore, whose father wanted to be with his family but wasn’t able to be. Moore explains that this conversation took placed during one of his first visits to prison. He describes witnessing many signs indicating that “the prisoners were owned by the state.” Talking on the phone through bulletproof glass, Wes asks Moore about the impact of his own father’s absence. Moore admits that he misses his father “all the time,” but that he isn’t sure about the impact that his father’s absence had on him. Both men ponder the question in silence.

At three years old, Moore is playing a game with his sister, Nikki, which involves him chasing after her and “playfully” punching her. Moore’s mother sees and is furious, ordering her son up to his room and shouting that he should never hit a woman. Moore runs upstairs to the room he shares with his youngest sister, Shani, unsure of why his mother is so angry. He then hears his father telling his mother not to be too hard on him, as yelling at a young boy will likely not do much good in the long run. Moore explains that he was named after his father, Westley, and that he has two middle names, Watende Omari. As his parents continue to argue, Moore looks out of his bedroom window, where he spots a friend walking down the street—the only person he knows with green eyes. On the dresser is a picture of himself and Nikki; she is seven years older than he is and her real first name is Joy, the same as their mother.

Two years later, it is summer break and Wes wakes up to the sound of the phone ringing. It’s Tony, asking where Mary is. Tony is very protective of Wes, although Wes doesn’t see him often as Tony spends most of his time in the Murphy Homes Projects—a filthy cluster of buildings, nicknamed the “Murder Homes,” which are overrun by criminal activity. Tony asks about school; Wes attends an elementary school nicknamed “Chicken Pen,” where 99% of the students are black and 70% receive free lunches. Tony tells his little brother to “take this shit seriously,” urging Wes not to follow in his own footsteps. Although Tony is only 14, he has been dealing drugs for four years and has an intimidating reputation. Yet despite his tough and impressive exterior, he wishes he could undo the past and put himself back in Wes’s position.

Moore and his friend Justin have spent the day in Manhattan, window shopping for sneakers that they can’t afford. The two boys bonded as soon as they met; they have the same haircut, know each other’s neighborhoods and families, and—most importantly—are two of the only black kids in their school. Despite having graduated from the New York public school system herself, Joy was worried about the prospect of sending her son to public school, thinking it would be too dangerous. Joy works three jobs to support the family and sends Moore to Riverdale, a university-like private school whose alumni include John F. Kennedy. She hopes that this will allow Moore to “escape” his own neighborhood in pursuit of a brighter future; however, this plan does not succeed.

Three years after Wes first decided to start work as a lookout, Tony is furiously asking his younger brother where he got the money to buy so many new pairs of sneakers. Wes tells him he’s become a popular neighborhood DJ, which is the same story he’s been telling Mary. Unlike Mary, however, Tony doesn’t believe him, and he asks Wes again and again. Wes keeps lying until Tony takes a swing at him, punching him in the face. Mary walks in to the sound of her sons fighting and asks what’s going on. Although Wes has been arrested twice before—once for pulling the knife in front of the police and another time for carjacking—Mary wanted to believe that Wes had been staying away from drugs. Now she knows that both of her sons’ innocent childhoods are truly over.

It is 5.30 am, and Moore is awoken by a chorus of loud shouts telling him to get out of his “racks.” His roommate urges him to get up and is “dumbfounded” by Moore’s protests that he’ll wait until 8. As his roommate leaves, Moore is left in a state of disbelief about the situation he’s found himself in. First Sergeant Anderson enters the room and begins screaming and cursing at Moore in decidedly unfamiliar language. Anderson then flashes a “devilish smile” before leaving. Moore explains that this is his first morning at military school, which Joy has sent him to after he was put on academic and disciplinary probation at Riverdale. On the same day as he receives the news of probation, Moore is sitting next to Shani at home, punching her arm out of boredom. At one point, he misses and splits her lip open. Furious, Joy slaps him across the face, and for a moment it seems as if Moore might hit her back. Joy breaks down in tears, fearful that she is “losing” her son.

Moore describes graduation day at Northern High School and points out that Maryland has one of the highest high school graduation rates in the country: 76%. Yet while Baltimore County’s graduation rate is 85%, in Baltimore City—where Northern High School is located—it is only 38%. Woody has just managed to scrape through to graduation along with 86 of his classmates. He dances joyously as he approaches the stage, before stopping to think of all his friends who haven’t made it to this point, including White Boy and Wes, who dropped out two years ago. After being arrested for shooting Ray, Wes was lucky; Ray sustained only a minor injury and Wes was tried in a juvenile court, and thus was given only six months in a juvenile detention facility. After serving his time, Wes re-enrolled in high school, but by this point he had missed so much that his teachers gave up on trying to catch him up. After Wes’ child is born, he drops out for good.

Moore is in a plane in the state of Georgia, being trained by a group of instructors called Black Hats. He has 50 pounds of equipment strapped to him, and is about to jump out of the plane; he is “about to become a paratrooper.” It has been just over a year since Moore decided to join the Army after high school. Although he had continued to be aggressively recruited by colleges for basketball, he soon began to realize that there was a stark difference in talent between himself and the guys who had a chance of going professional.

The phone at Mary’s house has been ringing for three minutes nonstop, but she ignores it. She has watched a news item on the TV that has made her freeze with panic. Three days before, four men entered a jewelry store carrying mallets and guns and ordered the people inside to get on the ground. Among the people in the store was Sergeant Bruce Prothero, a police officer and father of five who had a second job working as a security guard at the mall. The men grabbed almost $500,000 worth of jewelry and sprinted out; Sergeant Prothero dashed after them. In the mall parking lot, the men shot him three times from the car. Sergeant Prothero died as the men sped away.
